Hamas militants have released more
hostages from Gaza they include 14
Israelis and three Tha Nationals who had
been held captive in the Gaza Strip
since the October 7 attacks by the
islamist militants whove been designated
a terrorist group by the EU us and
others Israel also freed 39 more
Palestinian prisoners from Israeli
custody now with the 4-day truce between
Israel and Hamas now in its final day
there are signs from both sides that it
could be
extended after more than 50 days in
captivity hostages arrived from Gaza two
Israeli hospitals for medical checks
among them three Thai Nationals greeted
Inside by previously released hostages
none of them needing urgent care they're
undergoing a medical and emotional
evaluation by the medical and
psychosocial team the youngest captive
to be released was 4-year-old Abigail
Eden a dual Israeli American citizen
both her parents were killed in the
Hamas October 7th Terror
attacks you know she's free and she's in
Israel now and uh so those who are now
uh wrapping Abigail and love and care
and the Supportive Services she needs
she's been through a terrible
trauma throughout the weekend reunions
like these between 9-year-old hostage
Emily cornberg and her sister brought
hope amid the
hostilities we finally got Emily back
from the hands of the Gaz and
terrorists uh she's lost a lot of
weight um from her face and
body uh but generally doing better than
we expected
um dozens of Palestinians were released
from Israeli jails as part of the
agreement crowds welcome their return in
rala
celebrating we are very happy thank God
for this joy and we hope that all
prisoners will be
released as the pause and fighting nears
its scheduled end calls to extend the
truce are growing with both Israel and
Hamas signaling there is a chance for a
possible
extension and for more on this we're
going to bring in DW correspondent Tanya
krer who's in Jerusalem for us it's good
to see you Tanya so this is as we've
been reporting the last day of the
ceasefire agreement How likely is it
that this deal will be extended at this
point well I think it's still too early
to say and at the moment the focus is on
getting those last hostages out under
this deal that 50 hostages should be
freed uh within those 4 day of uh the PS
and fighting and 150 Palestinian
prisoners uh should be freed in exchange
for that so we understand that Israel
has received a list with the names but
it seems also there are some problems we
are also hearing from Hamas there's a
problem with the list of the Palestinian
prisoners and Qatar is uh Medi mediating
at the moment you know that there are no
last minute delays and of course then
you know everybody is uh looking forward
to see whether this deal could be
extended as you said uh there is a
provision in the outline of this
agreement that for every 10 more
hostages uh Hamas can uh uh free uh
there would be another day of the uh Tru
uh extended but at the moment we don't
know uh whether this will happen we
understand both sides have signaled
they're interested in that and everybody
Qatar Egypt and also the United States
are working on that but we have to wait
and see whether this will actually
happen Tanya for the past few days we've
been seeing these moving images of the
hostages being reunited with their with
their families but what more can you
tell us about the state uh that these
hostages are are in the ones who've been
released well so far we only heard from
the medical staff but also from some
relatives and you know the medical staff
doctors have said the last hostages that
were released on Sunday especially the
children they were in stable condition
uh but there is one of the hostages an
84 year-old elderly woman uh she's in
critical condition she was uh airlifted
immediately after she was released uh to
a hospital and of course there's also
the concern about you know the trauma
that uh the hostages have been uh going
through especially also for the children
but for some who only learn now what
happened to their uh loved ones uh you
know some of them have no home to go to
of course this is something uh that is a
concern uh in the long term as well and
Israel's prime minister benam n he
visited troops inside Gaza on Sunday
what was his message
there well I think think it's mainly a
message uh to the domestic public I mean
for prime minister to go into uh uh Gaza
to go into this area basically showing
or uh trying to show uh that we are in
control here for now he reiterated again
you know that Israel is uh you know
might be resuming uh the war because
they need to attain uh their their goals
of eliminating Hamas of el eliminating
uh their infrastructure but of course
such a visit is also seen as a
provocation I would say uh by many
Palestinians all right and that is our
correspondent Tanya Kramer reporting uh
for us there in Jerusalem uh we wait to
hear if indeed that truth will be
extended thank you so much for your
reporting
Tanya and let's now move on to Jordan's
capital Aman where we can speak to Ahmed
Bam from the Norwegian Refugee count
Council NGO uh we appreciate you being
on the program Ahmed um the big question
today is whether the truth uh is going
to be extended what what are you
hearing good morning um I mean like you
report I mean there is a chance and we
hope a genuine chance of of uh this
truth being extended and the polls
becoming a a permanent ceasefire really
four days is is Never Enough five days
is not enough a week month is not enough
to uh you know recollect and and and go
and support these these people um it's a
disaster what is happening in Gaza and
we need the weight of the world thrown
Behind These negotiations the 11th Hour
negotiations we hope that um we will get
an outcome um for for the sake of the
people for the sake of the hostages for
the sake of the the death place for the
sake of the heavily wounded uh it is
Vital hours that we are uh getting to
now now and we still we are still full
of optimism we hope that um everyone
will come to that agreement and extend
that pause and Ahmed just give us a
sense of how much Aid um organizations
like yours managed to deliver over the
past three days in during the
truce it might it might look uh better
and and more than we have seen before
the truth however it's it's nowhere near
enough we had a few trucks making their
way into Gaza um to Bringing bringing
Essentials Basic
Essentials uh like water like mats like
kitchen sets for people spoons plates uh
blankets Etc but we are racing Against
Time really and we can't operate in an
environment where we know that the gates
will close uh soon I mean we we need not
a trickle we need a gsh of Aid coming
through through Gaza I think now it's
it's pretty futile to be talking about a
number of trucks what we need is the you
know is is for the gates to continue to
open so that we can reach more people
and give us a sense of your your
preparations uh in the event that this
uh the truce is is not going to be
extended I mean that would be a
disastrous scenario really for for
everyone involved not just the Norwegian
Refugee Council we are at five um
shelters we are you know and providing
help there we are providing some clean
water purified water I mean we will lose
all of that almost our um you know
movement around Gaza we will lose that
and obviously Northern Gaza we haven't
even spoken about that it's it's almost
unreachable very little has has got
there we can't lose these very little
gains that we have made and we need to
capitalize on what we are making in
terms of progress in terms of Aid if the
ceasefire was to be agreed tomorrow Gaza
would need years to go back to where it
was before before this all um tick off
and we need we need the International
Community to put Humanity first and
prioritize the needs of those
people all right ammed bam is from the
Norwegian Refugee Council uh we
appreciate uh your time and insights
thanks very much
Ahmed thank
you